Hi everyone.
I'm.
Welcome to the final session of week one.
We learned about forecasting techniques
in various settings in the past sessions.
Forecasting methods were based on
data from several past observations.
To wrap up,
I'm gonna talk about a specific
setting based on the apparel industry.
In this setting,
we'll use the same forecasting tools
to build a descriptive distribution
based on data from several products.
Hello welcome back to Week 1,
Session 4 of Descriptive Analytics.
In this week, Session 4, we're gonna
be Forecasting New Products and
we're going to look at
how to fit distributions.
We're going to look at a New Product
Problem, Forecasting a new product.
In the case of new products and
new designs in the market,
there is very limited demand data.
How do you Forecast in such settings?
Often times subjective
techniques are used.
Let's take a look at some of
the subjective techniques.
Subjective Forecasting Methods.
Some of the Subjective Forecasting Methods
we're interested in are through
composites.
For example,
you can look at Sales Force Composites.
This is, sales personnel demand data and
they estimate,
and they aggregate all the demand data.
This aggregation of sales personal
estimates makes your composite.
Another method to collect data or
to forecast demand is to
use customer service.
Or you could use a jury
of executive opinion,
where there is a committee
of forecasters and
they come up with the forecast and
use that collective knowledge.
One method that is often used
is called the Delphi method.
What Delphi method does is the following.
Individual opinions are compiled and
then you reconsider them over and
over again until a group
consensus has reached.
All of the subjective methods are
eventually based on gut feel and check.
Let's look at a forecasting application.
And we are looking at an outdoor
wear company called Andes.
Andes has the a product,
a new men's hiking shoe design.
Andes Inc has sold this particular design
called the Drifter, for only one season.
In the past season,
they made a forecast of 1200 units.
They made more than 1200 units,
they made Q=1500 units,
out of which, they sold 1397 units.
As you can see,
not much demand data is available.
Now, how can Andes think about
descriptive statistics for Drifter?
That's a question we're
going to be looking at.
We're going to learn how to fit
a distribution by tracking errors.
If there is limited past demand data,
like in the case of Andes for example, for
new products,
we start with subjective forecasts.
However, we can do better
than that with more data.
If you think about it,
often there is additional demand data
from other products you
have forecast in the past.
That data is informative of how your
forecast deviated from the true demand.
We will use one approach on how
to fit a normal distribution
to such available data.
We can use other similar approaches for
other distributions.
But we're going to look
at normal distribution.
We have data from Andes Inc for
all their men's shoes.
The table shows you all the products
that they made in the last season,
their forecast in the second column, the
volume of production in the third column.
The sales for
those products in the fourth column,
and the demand that they saw for
all these products in the last column.
For example, if you look at
the product omega, the forecast was
2,400, they made 3000 shoes,
they sold 2967 and
the actual demand was also 2967,
all of which they sold.
Now, the subjective forecast for
Drifter for the next season is 1000 pairs.
What demand model should Andes use for
drifter?
If you look at the previous
table that I showed you,
you will notice that there is
a difference between sales and demand.
What is sales?
Sales is nothing but censored demand.
For example,
if your demand was 1,000 units and
you had only 800 units on the shelf,
the sales is going to be 800 units.
You cannot meet all demand.
There are several examples
where this happens.
For example, popular music players,
gaming consoles, are often sold out
because there is limited inventory.
For most operational problems
such as the Newsvendor problem,
we need the true demand distribution.
We are interested in collecting
the true demand distribution.
In order to do that,
one step we are going to take
is to compare your forecast with
the actual demand in the table.
And here is a graph that shows you the
forecast and the actual demand on a chart.
On the x axis is forecast on
y axis is the actual demand.
For example, here is a product for
which the actual demand was
pretty close to the forecast.
In general,
you'll notice that some demands
are higher than forecast on
the upper triangle in the chart.
And for some products, the demand was
lower than forecast, for example look at
this product, the demand was about 1,000
and the forecast was more than 3,500.
This chart tells you how much typically
the true demands deviates
from your forecast.
If your demand was exactly
equal to your forecast,
you will be on the diagonal
line over here in the chart.
Using the chart that we
saw in the previous slide,
we can measure forecast performance now.
In order to measure forecast performance,
I'm gonna generate another column,
which has something called the A/F ratio.
The A/F ratio column is nothing but
the actual demand,
stands for A, divided by your forecast.
In the first example, we have 796
divided by 800 which is
almost equal to 1.00.
So we measure the forecast versus
the actual demands, by calculating
a ratio of the actual demand to the
forecast and this is called the AF Ratio.
We are interested in generating
an empirical distribution function of our
forecast accuracy, and
remember that A/F ratio is useful in
developing our understanding
of forecast accuracy.
A/F ratio is just the ratio of
actual demand to the forecast.
We evaluate these actual
demand to the forecast ratio
of the A/F ratio for
all past observations.
A/F ratios measure how much the actual
demand deviated from the forecast.
If your A/F ratio was 0.8, this means that
your actual demand was
80% of the forecast.
The A/F ratios help us pin down the
uncertainty around the current forecast.
We're going to learn how to choose
a normal demand distribution and
fit it on our data.
We start with an initial forecast.
This comes from a subjective method,
lets say hunches, guesses,
committee forecast etc.
We use the initial forecast, let's assume
the initial forecast is 1,000 units.
Then we calculate the A/F
ratios in the historical data.
And recall, A/F ratio is just the ratio
of actual demand to forecast for
all the products that we forecasted.
Now how do we fit in the mu and
the sigma, that is the mean and
the standard deviation of
the normal distribution?
We set the mean of the normal
distribution to the following value.
We calculate the expected A/F ratio and
multiply it by the Forecast and
that's your mean of
the normal distribution.
For the standard deviation
of the normal distribution,
we calculate the standard deviation of the
af ratios and multiply it by the forecast.
Let's look at an example.
In our example,
we had a forecast of 1,000.
We calculated the A/F ratios.
The mean A/F ratio is 1.01 and
the standard deviation of
the actual A/F ratios is .31, so
when we multiply these by the forecast
we get the mean demand is 1,010 and
the standard deviation of
the actual demand is 310.
So for our descriptive data, we can fit
a normal distribution with mean 1010 and
standard deviation 310
to represent our demand.
Note, if you wanna predict demand for
predictive purposes,
we need to update the demand distribution.
We can update the normal demand
distribution as follows.
Mean, we can just keep the same,
which is 1,010, and
the standard deviation
needs to be corrected.
The standard deviation will be corrected
in this data set from 310 to 390.
If you wanna look at how the standard
deviation is corrected for
predictive purposes,
we can go back to Session 2 and
look at the video where I corrected
using our moving averages method.
We just calculated the descriptive
statistics for our data, and
we have the normal demand model.
Here is the normal demand distribution for
our data.
For Drifter,
we use a normal demand distribution
with mean 1010 and standard deviation 310.
This comes because we knew our forecast,
we knew how good our forecast was,
which helps us measure how your forecast
will deviate from the true demand,
and that helps us calculate
the standard deviation.
And this is a good demand
distribution model.
Even though we had very limited data for
a new product,
we used our forecasting process in
the past to come up with some demand
distribution that helps us understand how
the uncertainty in the future looks like.
Our techniques are very
broadly applicable.
For example, they can be used for
understanding GDP forecasts,
Gross Domestic Product for
our country or foran economy.
And we compare the forecast with
the actual observations and
be confident about our
forecasting process.
For more details, you can look at Nate
Silver's book on The Signal and the Noise,
particularly the Chapter 6 on
Drowning in 3 feet of water.
Another example that I will briefly
mention is a company called
Sport Obermeyer.
The forecasting process used in
Sport Obermeyer also measures errors.
You can find out more about this
in a paper by Fisher and Raman.
The paper is on Reducing the Cost
of Demand uncertainty through
Accurate Response to Early Sales.
So far we looked at how to generate
a demand distribution when there is
limited data.
The technique that helped us is
how to measure forecast errors.
Keeping track of forecast
errors informs us how good and
reliable our forecasts are.
In turn, this information is useful in
characterizing the demand uncertainty,
how your demand is
distributed in the future.
Figuring out what's casual and
what's correlated is a hard thing to do.
The tools I have covered leverage
the past data into coming up with
a predictive model for future demand.
That's it for
Descriptive Analytics, let's recap.
We started with the Newsvendor Problem,
we introduced Random Variables and
we looked at Demand Distributions.
We learned how to forecast demand,
we leaned how to forecast
with Past Historical Data.
We looked at Forecast Errors and
Biases in Forecasts.
We looked at two techniques,
moving averages and exponential smoothing.
We learned how to generate
Descriptive Statistics,
particularly mean and standard deviation.
We learned how to adapt them for
future predictive purposes.
We looked at Trends and Seasonality.
Finally, we learned how to
forecast new products and
how to fit demand distributions.
That's it for Descriptive Analytics.
We'll cover more tools in
the weeks to come, and
in those weeks we'll be continuing on to
prescriptive and predictive analytics.
It's been an exciting week.
We saw a fundamental operations problem
called a newsvendor problem that deals
with supply-demand matching
in uncertain settings.
We learned how to describe
our data in such settings.
We learned how to forecast
in stationary settings.
We learned how to describe trend and
seasonality as well as how to
forecast in such settings.
Using Excel examples, we explored how to
implement these toolkits and techniques.
The descriptive analytics that we
have learned, forms a basis for
your future learning in this course.
We have review material, slides for
some advanced material and
example templates available.
We hope you find them useful.